Sat 09 May 2020 09:36:46 PM UTC

Some graphs have a scaled X axis; to get them to
correspond with real data, their range is specified.

Since no exact mathematics was ever done to scale
them along integer divisions, this creates a small
problem with scaling an arbitrary length integer
line segment to correspond with real data intercepts.

And this is why producing new graphs with new scalings
takes time and effort to do well.

In general, the very first X axis specified rules the
graph overall (provides automatic resizing on the
X axis to fit in all the data, including reserving
space for future entries, when this is desirable).

Some initial X axis setups do not print the values
but will nevertheless print the scale 'ticks' that
correspond to them.

So many graphs have at least two X axes; the second
one specified usually has the correct coefficients
specified (as a range or 'Scale?' TODO: check on
nomenclature).

So for example, if the scale is to represent June 8th
through June 21st, the coefficients of '8' and '21'
are specified as the endpoints for that scale (or
scale 'segment' where there are multiple segments
listed for different data sets, especially on 30 and
31 day calendar blocks, where numbering resets back
to the 1st of the month, for the next month in
sequence).

There are various automatic visual presentation elements
generated by specifying different scaling parameters.

Some aren't exactly intuitive; a good technique seems
to be to specify '2' as the labeling interval; this
seems to force display of only the even-numbered values.

When a scale shows only every other value, which are
all odd (rather than even) that is sometimes due to
the room available for printing the coefficients, in
combination with having not specified '2' as the label
interval (allowing, instead, the program to make the
choice without a specified interval suggested by the
programmer editing the graph's specs).

The above is provisional!  Recited from memory - there
will be mistakes in those assumptions/observations.

 - - -

The absolute scale is also given on most graphs; different
starting places have been tried.

The earlier ones used the zero point (where the numbers
proceed into negative integer values, to the left of
the zero on the number-line).

That zero point was almost always specified to correspond
with March 31st.

This left April 1st as postive 1; April 5th as postive 5,
and so on.

Since the very first case in Connecticut reached reporting
on March 8th, this works out fairly well as a timeline for
the advance of the virus in the State.

Later, this was normalized somewhat, so that adding 10, 20,
30, 40 &c. to the day of the month produces the corresponding
number on the absolute scale.

As the error is less than 9 days, and those 9 days, in
hindsight, become less and less important, this is seen
as an acceptable compromise to get things aligned neatly,
and more importantly, usefully to casual interpretation
of each of the graphs.






